From Paradise Now

Thanks to the scientific method, humankind will discover the obsucre but predictable calculus (science)
of human affairs. As old superstitions fade, the world will become a more comfortable,
more just, and more happy place.

She believes that humans are still imperfect and terrible, but also that the 20th c is
far better than the alternative.

America was seen as a fresh start without the baggage of European social strata. She knows
this isn't true in 20th c America.

"Thus in the beginning, all the world was America" - John Locke 1690

"49. Thus in the beginning all the World was America, and more so than that is now;
for no such thing as Money was any where known. Find out something that hath the
Use and Value of Money amongst his Neighbours, you shall see the same Man will begin
presently to enlarge his Possessions."

Frank and Fritz Manuel: The great utopias have all borne witness to their anger at
the world, their disgust at society"

Thomas Paine: "We have in our power the ability to begin the world over again"

Fourier propsed building enomrus complexes called "phallansteries."

Owen's "parallelograms"
* "The only practical difficulty will be to restrain men from rushing too precipitously"
into the new paradise


Cabet: "Travels in Icaria"

Noyes, Perfectionists: "The Burned-over District" (eugenicists, free love)

PN: "The 19th century utopians shared a common anxiety about the rising specter of
industrial capitalism, a then novel system that seemed, to them, to lay
waste to everything in its path while offering as its sole compensation
cheap goods and a few private fortunes."

Augie March (in Saul Bellow): "What comfort some have that the negligible is
upheld and all other greater effort falls on its face."

Dream Revolutionaries: gender and gendre in women's utopian fiction, Lewes, Darby

* Lois Waisbrookers A Sex Revolution (1894)
* Ella Merchant Unveiling a Parallel (1893)
* Mary Bradley Lane - did not tell her husband she wrote a utopian novel
* Lillie Blake "A Divided Republic" (1887)

"a non-existent society described in considerable detail" (Sargent, 1988)

----
Moving the Mountain, 1911,
Charlotte Perkins Gilman

"We really do raise <i>better</i> people. Even the old ones have improved.
You see, life is so much pleasanter and more interesting."

"People who used to be called sinners are now seen to be diseased
members of society." He sat smiling, his eyes full of light.
"Sometimes we had to had to amputate," he continued, "especially at first.
It is very seldom necessary now."

"You mean you killed the worst people?"

--
"It was a beautiful world, but it was not my world."

--

"They have the look of people who have come to the end of the things
[and who have failed to find it amusing]"
The Republic of the Future
https://archive.org/stream/republicfutureo00doddgoog#page/n30/mode/2up/search/they+have+the+look
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Republic_of_the_Future

"The entire population seems to have but one really serious purpose in life—to
murder time which appears to be slowly killing them."

"A man can't have his dream and dream it too."

"We are still chaotic, and unformed, and unredeemed, and unregenerate. But we are
tremendously alive." (83)


--

Mizora:

"We believe that the highest excellence of moral and mental character is alone attainable by a fair race. The elements of evil belong to the dark race."

"And were the people of this country once of mixed complexions?"

"As you see in the portraits? Yes," was the reply.

"And what became of the dark complexions?"

"We eliminated them."

*

Hills and valleys, and sparkling cities veiled in foliage, with their numberless parks and
fountains and statues sleeping in the soft light, gleaming lakes and wandering rivers that
glittered and danced in the glorious atmosphere like prisoned sunbeams, greeted us like the
alluring smile of love, and yet, for the first time since entering this lovely land, I felt myself a prisoner.

---

"God did not make us perfect. He left us something to do for ourselves."

http://www.sacred-texts.com/wmn/uap/uap12.htm

----

“It was an experiment. We all risked something, and must bear our losses as we can"
- Transcendental Wild Oats, Louisa May Alcott, 1873

---

Arqtiq

"What is the breath of life," I at last ask.
"Oh, I can answer that. I have found it out since I have been here. It is, my
dear, electricity, which we assimilate into spirit."
Anna Adolph, 1899
